the United Nations has said its fuel
reserves could run out as soon as today
making it impossible to distribute Aid
to more than 2 million people in the
Gaza Strip this comes as the World
Health Organization warns that gaza's
biggest hospital has become nearly a
cemetery with bodies piled up inside and
outside US President Joe Biden has said
gaza's main hospital must be protected
appealing for Less intrusive mil action
by the Israeli Defense
Forces the UN says power outages at the
alifa hospital in Northern Gaza mean
that dozens of premature babies and 45
kidney dialysis patients can't be
treated the IDF says it's working to
transfer incubators well let's go live
now to Southern Israel and my colleague
Mark luren Mark what's the latest that
we know about the situation there at
alifa hospital
well I was just actually reading some
comments from the manager of the
hospital Katherine who has spoken to
Gaza Lifeline um a uh media Outlet
saying that the the the hospital is
empty of food Fuel and water uh that
seven of those premature babies that uh
our viewers will remember that we saw in
those heartbreaking photographs
yesterday who were out of incubators
because there's a lack of fuel have now
died and he was asked whether Israel had
made contact with them regarding the
transfer of incubators or the evacuation
of the babies and he said no we reached
out to them uh now this hospital has
been very much the center of not only
the fighting but but claim and counter
claim uh between the two sides I mean
the the Hamas run Health Ministry in
Gaza says that the hospital is now part
of what it calls The Circle of Death I
think what we're facing now is
increasing International pressure on
Israel to try to Halt the fighting
around the hospital I mean President
Biden has intervened over ID said that
he has called for Israel to have to make
less intrusive action around the
hospital he said the hospital should be
protected and rishy sunak the UK prime
minister has said that there should be
urgent and substantive pauses in the
fighting particularly around the
hospital so um the hospitals Israel says
conceal Hamas command centers it says
that it is targeting those Hamas control
centers underneath the hospital but of
course still inside the hospitals we are
seeing hundreds of patients trapped
there and dwindling reserves of oxygen
and and any Fuel That Remains and and
Mark how is Israeli government
responding to this International
pressure yesterday it was talking about
taking some fuel reserves to alifa
hospital and understand a minister has
said that the fighting might go on for
several more weeks before a ceasefire
could be looked
at well a spokesman for the foreign
minister here in Israel said that they
believe that he believes that Israel has
two to three weeks until the
international pressure really steps up
Israel is clearly aware that the clamor
for a ceasefire and a clamor for and the
outrage actually of the International
Community over the plight of of of of of
of the civilians inside Gaza is reaching
boiling point and that even uh Israel's
traditional allies in the west such as
the us such as France are pushing ever
harder for some kind of humanitarian
pause Israel's policy up until now has
always been that there will only be a
ceasefire until there's movement on the
hostages 240 hostages that were taken by
Hamas on the 7th of October we
understand that um that a some kind of
deal is nearing is in the offing to try
to release some hostages U uh that were
taken on the 7th of October in exchange
for uh Israel releasing Palestinian
children and women in its prisons here
possibly several dozen uh who could be
released as a as part of some kind of
exchange deal it has not yet been
finalized though and until there is some
kind of deal that we understand has kind
of reached you know some kind of
finalization I think that there will be
no sign of of of of any sort of
ceasefire but as part of that deal there
could be possibly a 5-day pause in the
fighting so so that is that that is what
where we are this morning in terms of
the of the Diplomatic to and fro in
terms of humanitarian pauses and and
hostage release but you know meanwhile
the suffering goes on I have to say
Catherine there has been severe rain
it's just been tipping down here this
morning you can imagine what it would be
like for the for the civilians who are
fleeing Northern Gaza you can imagine
what it would be like for for the bodies
that are being left to rot outside the
Sha Hospital uh as the as the rain uh as
the rain really really comes down this
morning and there's forecast of of more
thunderstorms to come today so the
situation on the ground is only going to
get worse as the weather as the weather
as the weather closes in thank you very
much that's the BBC's Mark low in there
in southern Israel Mark will be here
throughout the day with more updates
from Southern Israel and Gaza